Performance test reports
========================

## Quick start

Set up the Python virtual environment and install dependencies, this is only required once:
```bash
python3 -mvenv venv
source venv/bin/activate
python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

```bash
source venv/bin/activate
./report.py --verbose --sql sql --db-url postgresql+psycopg2://postgres@localhost:5432/benchto --output report.html
open report.html
```

> Note: don't specify the password in the DB URL option. Instead, configure it in the `~/.pgpass` file.

To generate the report only for selected Benchto environments, specify their names in the `--environments` option. To select all environments for a particular Trino version, use SQL wildcards, for example: `-e '%393%,%394%'`.

## Usage

Reports are generated by executing queries from plain-text files. They're self-contained and do not require any additional configuration. This requires the following conventions:

1. First line should be a comment and will be treated as the report title.
1. If there's no comment, the query is still executed, but its results will not be included in the report. There can be setup queries that create views and functions used by other queries.
1. If there are more comment lines, they're treated as the report description.
1. Column names must be in `snake_case`.

There are three kinds of columns recognized:
1. Metrics - their column name must end with the following suffix: `num2f`, `num`, `pct`, `unit`, `err`.
1. Labels - must end with `_label`.
1. Dimensions - columns without any of the suffixes mentioned above.

Metric columns are always aligned right and formatted according the their suffix.
* `num` formats the value as an integer number.
* `num2f` formats the value as a decimal, rounded 2 decimal places.
* `pct` formats the value as a percent (rounded to 2 decimal places).

If the suffix is `unit`, there should be a dimension columns named `unit` and the metric is formatted according to it's value. There's a separate chart created for every unit present in the results.
Recognized units are:
* `MILLISECONDS`
* `BYTES`
* `PERCENT`
* `QUERY_PER_SECOND`

If the suffix is `err`, there should be a matching column with the same prefix, which will have an error value marked on its bar. For example, there could be two columns named `mean_unit` and `mean_err`.

Column labels are generated by changing `snake_case` into capitalized words and dropping the suffix.

Label columns contained additional information and are not dispalyed in bar charts, only in tables.

Dimension columns uniquely identify a single metric value, so on bar charts they're joined with a comma.
If a dimension column name ends with `_pivot`, it'll be used to additionally group metrics on bar charts.

## Development

To refresh the list of dependencies:

```bash
pip-compile requirements.in
```
